6 ways students can demonstrate leadership

Leadership is more than an individual holding a specific position or title. Students can demonstrate leadership in their daily campus lives. During the early years of college, your student may want to get involved on campus as a participant before jumping into leadership. However, they can still practice leadership with their words, actions and, most importantly, character.

CU Boulder offers students many opportunities to pursue leadership roles through programs, student organizations, on-campus jobs and more. Whether they are ready to jump into a designated leadership role or not, here are ways students can exemplify being a leader.

Practice empathy
Leaders empathize with the experiences and perspectives of others. Students who seek to listen and understand diverse points of view can help foster an inclusive environment.

Practical ways students can apply empathy as they demonstrate leadership include allowing others to speak first in group meetings and actively listening without interruption. It may involve attending cultural events on campus to support diverse communities and gain understanding and knowledge. It can also be as simple as asking someone sitting alone in the dining hall to join them. These empathic actions can serve as an example that encourages others to follow the lead and promote compassion and inclusion.

Take accountability
When students take accountability for their actions and decisions, they demonstrate leadership as part of their character. Taking accountability builds trust and credibility. It can allow others to see the example of responsibility and create a brave space for them to be responsible.

This can look like apologizing for words or actions that caused harm or asking to redo a project they didn’t put the required effort into at an on-campus job. Accountability comes in many forms, but at the core, it promotes honesty and clear communication to acknowledge areas that need improvement and promote a path to remediation.

Advocate for change
Whether students drive change or work to get others to accept it, change requires adaptability. Students can demonstrate leadership by recognizing where improvements are needed and then taking action to recommend or implement those changes. They don’t have to hold a position of authority to promote change.

For example, the Dean of Students’ office encourages students to reach out and offer ideas for improvements or innovations to campus life. Sharing their well-thought-out ideas can help students become more comfortable presenting their thoughts to those in a position to implement change.

Assume positive intent
Each person at CU Boulder is responsible for creating the environment they want to experience on campus. That includes treating each other with respect, even during disagreements or conflict. Students can demonstrate leadership by assuming positive intent when interacting with others. While there are times when someone may not have positive intent, starting from a place of goodwill can often prevent misunderstandings and conflict.

This can look like students asking clarifying questions when they feel wronged or offended. For example, if a team member doesn’t complete their portion of work on a group project in time for the team meeting, the other students can ask what happened and allow them to explain before responding in frustration. The team can then maintain a positive working relationship, which can help produce a better project and build stronger relationships.

Promote excellence
Part of demonstrating leadership is having high standards for oneself. Students can promote excellence within their sphere of influence. This includes residence halls, student organizations, classes or student jobs. When students do their best and take responsibility for their quality of work, they can elevate the standards for those around them.

Students can promote excellence by showing up and working hard in classes, activities and programs. For example, they can be on time and give their full effort at intramural sports team practice. Or do their assignments and reading to be ready to participate in class discussions. These small actions not only demonstrate their character but can also encourage others to do the same.

Develop a leadership mindset
Whether in a leadership role or not, students can have a leadership mindset and incorporate leadership characteristics into their experience at CU Boulder. Their daily practice of demonstrating leadership can help students succeed in future opportunities.

Students can experience personal growth, skill development, enhanced relationships and an overall improved college experience. These practices and characteristics can help them shine as they seek official leadership positions during college, search for jobs and internships, and move into life after college.
