Student Government
George Mason University’s Student Government is a permanent standing entity that is representative of the undergraduate student body.

We:
Advocate for the interests of our peers
Meet with Administrators regularly to address students’ issues and concerns
Educate the student body on the state of the institution
Represent the interests of the students
Serve as a liaison to the administration, faculty, and community
Student Government has undergone many changes throughout its history, but our mission and goal have remained focused on advocating for the students.

Student Government Leadership
The leadership of Student Government includes two elected positions:

The Undergraduate Student Body President
The Executive Vice President
Appointed leadership positions include:

the Vice President of Outreach
the Vice President of PR and Marketing
the Vice President for Membership Development and Training
Officers nominated and appointed by the URB:

All 6 Committee Chairs
The Clerk
The Undergraduate Representative Body
Representatives
The Undergraduate Representative Body (formerly known as the Student Senate) is elected by the undergraduate student body.

There are 50 total seats, including 20 academic college seats (2 per college) and 30 at-large seats.

Each Representatives is required to sit on two committees

Spring elections are held in the months of March or April for Student Body President and Vice President, as well as the Representatives.

Fall Elections have still not been reinstated.

Committees
Committee chairs and liaisons are appointed out of the membership of the representative body:

Administrative and Financial Affairs: which deals with Student Government’s budget, Governing documents, and University Finance.
University Services: Which focuses on initiatives related to dining, IT infrastructure, facilities, housing, parking & transportation sustainability, and more.
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: which focuses on initiatives related to multi-cultural RSOs, as well as University diversity and inclusion on campus.
Student Engagement and Support: which focuses on initiatives related to student well-being, student involvements, and the atmosphere on campus.
Government and Community Relations: which focuses on liaising with community members, local governmental organizations, as well as state and federal groups.
University Academics: which focuses on academic based initiatives such as Scholarship of the Week.
The Elections and Disputes Commission
The Elections and Disputes Commission (EDC) are tasked with:

Hosting the spring elections
Managing election disputes
Resolving disputes within SG
Upholding SG’s governing documents.
EDC commissioners are appointed to “lifetime” terms (until graduation). If you are interested in joining or learning more, please contact the EDC at sgedc@gmu.edu.
