Start a New Organization
Introduction

Please read this guide carefully, to ensure you can successfully register a new organization at
George Mason.
This guide is only applicable to RSOs.
Club Sports, Mason Korea Organizations, Departmental Organizations should not use this guide.
Get Support
If you have questions related to Starting a New Organization, contact RSO Support

Before You Submit an Application

Keep in Mind
RSOs must be Unique:
If you feel there is a question of your proposed application, please contact the RSO Support Team at rso@gmu.edu.
Past Department Organization: A required meeting with the Assistant Director, the students, and the department
advisor(s) will ensure the switch is the correct path for the student organization.

Application Requirements

Tier 1
• 1 President (Required)_
• 1 Treasurer (Required)_
• 4 Founding Members (Required)
Total: 6 People

Tier 2
o1 President (Required)_
o1 Treasurer (Required)_
o2 Officers (Required)\*
o4 Founding Members (Required)
o1 Advisor (Required) - Must be current GMU Faculty/Staff
Total: 9 People

Tier Descriptions

Tier 1 Access
Basic meeting rooms.
Standard set-up of space.
Basic outdoor space requests.
Events Production limited to equipment that is
provided free of charge.
Tier 1 Space Listing from 25Live: Tier 1 RSO Event
Locations.xlsx
Tier 1 Student Funding Board max allocation amount
per academic year: refer to SFB (funds not
automatically added to accounts, must request
through an application)

Tier 2 Access
Basic meeting rooms.
Large-scale, outdoor space requests.
Can reserve JC Cinema, Corner Pocket, JC Dance
Studio and Technology Classrooms.
Access to Major Programming Spaces: Dewberry
Hall, HUB Ballroom, JC Bistro, CFA, Harris Theater,
and all special space requests, case by case.
Complex/non-standard set up of space.
Advanced, complex events production requests.
Tier 2 Space Listing from 25Live: Tier 2 RSO Event
Locations.xlsx
Tier 2 Student Funding Board max allocation
amount per academic year: refer to SFB (funds not
automatically added to accounts, must request
through an application)

Registration Process Overview

Review
Timelines

Choose
RSO
Tier Level

Prepare
Required
Documents
and Information
\*Constitution
Template

Register
Organization
(via Mason360
Application)

Complete
Registration
Checklist

Receive
New RSO Next
Steps

Register A New Organization

1. Log In to mason360.gmu.edu
2. Select Groups
3. Click on All Groups Button
4. On the top of the page select Register Button
   This section will only display during a RSO New Registration window

Register A New Organization

6. Fill out Group Registration Details
   • The "Group Name" may not include "GMU", "Mason", or any
   other version of the GMU name. An RSO may refer to the
   University ONLY by using "RSO Name at George Mason
   University"
   • The “Group Acronym” is the website address for the group
   page on Mason360. It should be short and only letters
   oAny other time your group name is abbreviated, it
   cannot include just "GMU" in it.
   • Please choose a max of 4 categories
   • An RSO Logo must be unique. May not edit/add a George
   Mason University logo (see next page)
   • The “Mission” will be visible to all exploring RSOs and
   should be a way to explain why a student should reach out
   or join your club/org
   • The "Constitution" serves as the operating guidelines for
   your org and must be visible to all. Constitution Template

Register A New Organization

Logo tips
An RSO Logo must be unique. You may not edit/add a George Mason University logo. To follow
University branding guidelines:

1. Do not use any version of Mason, GMU, or George Mason. If an RSO chooses to include the
   university name, it must only be after your RSO name as "at George Mason University."
2. "At George Mason University" cannot be located before "at George Mason University."
   oYou can use "at" or the @ symbol.
3. RSOs cannot use any official GMU logo, trademark, Patriot, retired logos (such as the feather
   logo), or the University seal.

Register A New Organization

7. Add all applicable officers to the Officer section of the registration
   application
   Reminder:
   Tier 1: Two Required Officers (President and Treasurer)
   Tier 2: Four Required Officers (President, Treasurer, 2 Officers, 1 Advisor*)
   Each Officer listed must review officer acknowledgement (GPA Checks and
   Duties) and accept their Officer role.
   *The advisor must be added to the RSO Registration form in Mason360 as an officer.
   If the advisor does not have an existing Mason360 account, one must be requested in
   advance of the application: https://cglink.me/2d7/s95317. If the advisor is not available
   during the registration window, ensure this step is completed and during the next
   registration window, we will work with the group on a tier change.
   We have opened the registration form to allow additional Officers
   beyond the minimum requirement. Please keep note of the tier
   requirements above as the application does not need to have every
   text box filled.

Register A New Organization

8. Add all founding members to your registration application
   Members must be unique and cannot be the same as an Officer listed above.
   Both tiers must include 4 founding members.\*Founding members are general body members, they do not have specific duties

Register A New Organization

9. Fill out New RSO Group Registration Form
   • Select Tier Level
   • Add 25Live Representatives*
   • Answer New Membership Question
   *You must add a 25Live representative. Each
   representative can only have 25Live access
   for 1 club. 25Live allows you to reserve
   spaces.

Register A New Organization

10. You have reached the final step! Press "Submit".
    After completing and submitting your application, you and your officers
    and advisor (advisors -for Tier 2) should receive an email from
    mailer@campusgroups.com outlining officer agreement
11. As an Officer you must acknowledge you reviewed the position's
    outlined responsibilities.
12. Upon reading the acknowledgement, Accept your role as an officer
    Student Officers:
    By accepting this role, I am certif ying that I have reviewed the
    "Officer Inf ormation" found on the RSO HUB to understand
    my expectations as an officer or advisor.
    https://gmuedu.sharepoint.com/sites/SIRSOHub

RSO Registration Checklist

❑ Read Officer Acknowledgment email
❑ Each Officer Reviews the RSO HUB
❑ Each officer accepts their role for RSO (sender: mailer@campusgroups.com)
❑ Tier 2 advisor accepts role (sender: mailer@campusgroups.com)
❑ RSO Support team will contact submitter VIA Mason360 chat about required edits. If the
form requires modification, edit registration information and resubmit form
Find out what step your application is:
Log into Mason360 > Home > My Activity > My Survey/Forms
Instructions: Edit Registration Form

How to Edit Registration Form

_The person who submitted the Registration Form can edit the application_

1. Log into Mason360 > Home > My Activity > My Survey/Forms
2. Locate the Form you Submitted in list (New RSO Registration) >
   Click on “Edit” > Change Information as needed > Click SUBMIT
   Possible Tags on the Form Indicating Issues:  
   • Pending Approval: Waiting on all tasks to be completed
   • Draft: Was not submitted for review
   • Approved: Has been reviewed and Registration has been finalized.
   Only edit the form if changing the 25Live Representatives listed and
   email rso@gmu.edu.
   • Rejected: Email sent with explanation from RSO Lead Team

New RSO Next Steps

Once your club is approved, you can expect a couple of additional processes to occur.
University Events Assign a 25Live Account
• 25Live is the university-wide event and academic scheduling system and is available at http://25live.gmu.edu. All space
for events on campus must be requested through University Events.
ORG Codes
• Fiscal Services works with our office to create ORG Codes. The code is typically a number that has a letter and 6
numbers (ex:Wxxxxx).
• This code is associated with your RSO's account to keep a track of any Student Funding Board Requests, and 25Live will
also need your ORG Code for room reservations.
• To find your ORG Code, go to the "Files" section of your organization's Mason360 page on the left-hand side.
Please allow a couple of weeks after the registration window ends for the offices to process this information and reach out
to your organization.
FALL 2025 New RSOs:
• Your ORG CODE has been created. If it is not listed on your Mason360, please email rso@gmu.edu.
